Add SQL routine call for submissions (#565)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2023-11-08-routines.md

---
layout: post
title: "Share your best Trino SQL routine"
author: "Martin Traverso, Dain Sunstrom, David Phillips, Manfred Moser"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/trino-sql-routine.png
show_pagenav: false
---

We want to see the best [SQL routines]({{site_url}}/docs/current/routines.html)
you can write, feature them as [examples in the
documentation]({{site_url}}/docs/current/routines/examples.html), and send you
some goodies as a reward!

<!--more-->

With the recent [Trino 431
release]({{site_url}}/docs/current/release/release-431.html) we shipped a
feature that has been awaited by many Trino users for a long, long time. [SQL
routines]({{site_url}}/docs/current/routines.html) are an easy way to define our
own procedural, custom functions. All users on your Trino instance can then use
that function in their queries and enjoy the new feature to simplify their
queries.

The new process of writing a routine in your client tool in SQL replaces the old

> way of having to create a custom plugin in Java, compiling it, and getting the

Reviewer: We aren't replacing the old way.  The old was was really inaccessible to all but the most technical users.

Author: Updated

> binary deployed in your cluster. The time it takes to use a function has gone
> from hours to minutes!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
binary deployed in your cluster. The time it takes to use a function has gone
from hours to a few commands!
```

* `SET`
* `WHILE`

With the memory connector and the Hive connector supporting routine storage, you
can use `CREATE FUNCTION` and `DROP FUNCTION`, so that everyone using the
cluster has access to your routines.

The unit tests and our [examples
documentation](({{site_url}}/docs/current/routines/examples.html)) contain a
number of routines that scratch the surface of what is possible. Now, we are
looking for you to help us improve the documentation and maybe even find some
bugs. So here is what we are asking from you:

* Send us your best SQL routine.
  * Create a pull request to add to the [examples in the
    documentation](https://github.com/trinodb/trino/blob/master/docs/src/main/sphinx/routines/examples.md)
    with a new section, and request a review from [Manfred
    (mosabua)](https://github.com/mosabua)
  * Alternatively, [email the details](mailto:manfred@starburst.io) and submit a
    [CLA](https://github.com/trinodb/cla) separately.
* Explain the use case, what the routine does, and maybe also how it works.
* Include the full statement for the `CREATE FUNCTION` definition and an example
  invocation.
* Add any necessary tables or data so we can test the function.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a sentence saying if you need help writing a function, ask on some channel on slack

Author: Added
